[MUSIC PLAYING]
Well, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
Dr. Simeon Hind with
us, the director
of the not-for-profit
Institute for Resonance
right here in Boulder, Colorado.
The Institute is devoted to
the study of subtle energy,
including remote
viewing, crop formations
and related subjects.
Simeon, welcome to the program.
>>SIMEON HEIN: George,
thanks for having me today.
>>NOORY: What exactly
is subtle energy?
>>HEIN: Well, you know,
about 100 years ago, we
had this new scientific paradigm
called quantum mechanics.
And this subtle energy is how
quantum mechanics interacts
with us with biological systems,
living things, awareness,
consciousness.
>>NOORY: Who discovered this?
>>HEIN: Well, it was the work
of a lot of physicists back,
it was really
Albert Einstein that
discovered quantum mechanics.
But people began to wonder, how
do we interact with reality.
And are there very
sort of low level
so-called ultra weak
energy sources that
are very difficult
to measure, but we
can tell that they're there.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HEIN: And that
we interact with,
and it actually imbues us with
abilities that science really
hasn't recognized.
>>NOORY: Now when you say
we interact with them,
we tap into it?
Or how is that relationship?
>>HEIN: Yeah, we tap into it.
We sometimes get precognitive
sort of experiences.
Sometimes you get gut
feelings about things.
There's a whole realm of
research about distant healing,
how we can actually have
action, what Einstein called
spooky action at a distance.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HEIN: It's real.
>>NOORY: Is it like
the wireless internet
where we're connected
to this energy force
and it allows us to do
these amazing things?
>>HEIN: Yeah, I think that's
a really good analogy.
It's like an internet that
the universe already created,
and it's there.
>>NOORY: And we
just tap into it.
>>HEIN: Yeah, we
tap, we're actually
all tapped into it all the
time, but nobody told us, right?
>>NOORY: In my case, it
says ethernet not connected.
>>HEIN: Well, sometimes
it feels that way.
>>NOORY: Why can some people do
it at ease, other people can't?
>>HEIN: It really seems to do
with our social programming.
From the moment we show
up here as little babies,
we get a lot of programming
about what reality it.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HEIN: What's real,
what's not real.
And we're pushed in
certain directions to say,
don't do this, this is sort of
weird, this is not ordinary,
and we're pushed in kind of
this ordinary normal direction.
I think as we get
older, become adults,
we push back some of these
sensory abilities we have
and become less aware of it.
But it always pops through.
Occasionally pops
through, people
have experiences
they can't explain.
>>NOORY: You're right,
because as a child,
I was kind of different.
I loved sports and I
played all these things,
but I was also obsessed with
psychic phenomena, UFOs,
after life experiences
and all that.
At the age of 10
or 11 years old,
I mean, how could
that be, right?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
That's a really good point.
Because as children, we
often have these experiences,
but we're told by
adults, that's not real.
That's some sort of--
>>NOORY: My mom encouraged it.
>>HEIN: Oh, good, you're lucky.
>>NOORY: That's what happened.
You know, she
probably magnified it.
>>HEIN: I had a
mom like that too.
So we're both
fortunate in that way.
>>NOORY: She, I'm sure
she magnified my abilities
by supporting what I was doing.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I mean,
she would bring me
books on UFOs and consciousness
and stuff like that.
And I mean, I'm a kid, and
she said, read this, Georgie,
or read this.
>>HEIN: And you had a relative
too, didn't you, I remember.
>>NOORY: Yes, Dr.
Shafica Karagulla
was a psychiatrist who
changed her entire practice
from being a psychiatrist
to studying telepathy.
She was obsessed with that.
She wrote in a couple of
books, one being "Breakthrough
to Creativity," and she just
changed her entire practice
to devote herself to telepathy.
Sadly died in the tub when
a radio fell in her tub.
Thank God she wasn't
listening to my show.
That would been way too much.
>>HEIN: Yeah, no, I mean,
we have these experiences.
And once you start
getting involved
with this area for
many of us, we're
so curious, we want to know how
does the universe really work,
what's our place in it,
we can't stop studying
this and researching it, right?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HEIN: Because
there's so much there.
Everybody knows
>>NOORY: On the Gaia show,
"Buzzsaw," remote viewing
teacher, Ed Dames, who was
one of the government's
initial program
persons, tells us
what he's learned
about the agenda
from ETs and remote viewing.
>>SEAN STONE: What did you
learn about the ET phenomenon
through your work
and psychic research?
>>ED DAMES: Oh, that
would take weeks and weeks
and weeks as a data dump.
I think the best thing
that, they, there
is a federation out there
and we're not in it,
as George Carlin, late
George Carlin would say.
And the way to get in it is
not to try to second guess
the lower levels
of the federation,
but to look to see if they would
allow Homo sapiens to become
a member.
>>STONE: Yeah.
>>DAMES: But what
are their protocols?
Not what do we think we
should do to gain members.
Shoot down with a
50 cal or whatever.
What should we do?
How should we meet?
And look at their protocols.
And because consciousness, I
believe, is the lingua franca.
There's so many different
species and types
of life form, the commonality
is not math or gravity,
it's consciousness.
So these consciousness
tools really
become the foundation
for contact
and looking into the various
different entities that
are out there observing us.
What are their
protocols for contact?
Well, it turns out
that we're not mature
enough generally
speaking, to have contact.
They don't want
anything to do with us.
Want to observe this
madness down here.
But if you do display
an element of maturity
in terms of their standards,
there will be contact.
So I'm looking forward
to doing that again.
>>NOORY: Ed Dames'
nickname is, Simeon, is
Dr. Doom, because he is kind of
negative about certain things.
And he's negative
about the ET approach
with good old planet Earth.
I don't think you are.
>>HEIN: No, you know, there's
so many different angles
on this topic.
It's a huge topic.
We're having a lot
of information coming
forth now more than ever.
It's taken a while, but we're
getting around to disclosure,
learning more about
who these visitors are.
>>NOORY: And you're
convinced there are visitors?
>>HEIN: Oh, there's no doubt.
I mean, I've seen these
craft from time to time.
When I was 10, just like when
you had your experiences,
I had my first experience
with my mom bird
watching in the Everglades.
And this huge thing came
over that was as bright as--
>>NOORY: It wasn't
a bird, right?
>>HEIN: No, I thought it was
the moon until she pointed out
that the moon was over there.
So no, there's no doubt that
these are real phenomena.
It's just, what is it.
And there's a tendency for us
to project our stories onto it,
so it could be negative
or very positive.
But we have to realize a lot
of that's our own projection.
We really don't know exactly
what we're dealing with.
But it's real, there's
no doubt about that.
>>NOORY: And beyond
that episode at 10,
what was it that got you
into the field you're in now?
>>HEIN: It really had
to do with hearing
people talk about
remote viewing when
I got here to Boulder in 1996.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>HEIN: Yeah And I initially
thought, this can't be real.
We don't have
telepathic abilities.
Someone would've told me
in all those years I spent
in school and graduate school.
>>NOORY: So you came
late in this field.
>>HEIN: Very late.
Actually after that sighting at
10, I read a couple of books.
You know, Timothy Good's
book "Above Top Secret,"
things like, a couple as a
teenager and kind of let it go.
And then got here to Boulder
and heard someone talk
about remote viewing.
I thought, come on,
that can't be real.
But I went and took
a course in it,
and I was really surprised
at my own results,
thinking I'm just
an ordinary person
without any special
ability, and here, you
have almost a near
perfect description
of a picture, a
target, we call it,
that you won't see
until after you're done.
How did you do that?
And I was just kind
of hooked after that.
>>NOORY: And you never
stopped after that.
>>HEIN: No, I never stopped.
>>NOORY: Because you
got into every area
of this kind of phenomena.
>>HEIN: Got into every area,
because all these paths
connect in some way.
They're not separate topics.
Our minds sometimes think
there's this and there's that.
But crop circles,
remote viewing,
somehow they all go together.
And you end up, if
you're a curious person,
you really want
to know the facts,
you start investigating
these things, right?
And you see there's
really evidence for this.
And what's more, no one's
telling you about it.
And that was true
with remote viewing.
I thought, how
could this be real
that you could take
an average person,
put them in a class
for a few days
and they can start getting good
results describing target sites
that they haven't seen
yet, and yet no one's
told me about this in
27 years of education?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HEIN: Right.
>>NOORY: What do you think
of the government's program
investigating remote viewing?
I mean, Ed Dames was
one of those members.
>>HEIN: Yeah, he was,
he was part of it.
>>NOORY: Russell Targ, Ingo
Swann and all those people.
What do you think
of that program?
>>HEIN: They, George,
they started doing this
because they were afraid.
>>NOORY: Of the Russians.
>>HEIN: Exactly right.
>>NOORY: The Soviets.
They did it out of fear that
the other, our adversaries
were going to gain on
us in this area of.
>>NOORY: If we don't do
it, they will, right?
>>HEIN: Yes.
Psychotronic weapons,
as they called it.
There's been a lot
of documents that
have come forth recently
showing that our intelligence
agencies were initially
saw this as a threat, not
an opportunity.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HEIN: It's a threat,
the Russians, the Chinese.
And those countries had very
advanced programs in this.
They took it seriously.
They didn't have the
skepticism that we
do in the United States.
And so they eventually,
our government said, well,
if they have it, we
have to investigate.
And they took people like Ingo
Swann, Pat Price and others.
>>NOORY: The best of the best.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
And they said, it's really real,
and what can we do with it?
>>NOORY: Why did they stop it?
Or did they?
>>HEIN: Good question.
>>NOORY: I ask that to
people like Ed Dames,
and he said it stopped.
And I said, how
do you know that?
He said, because they're
not using us anymore,
and we were the
best of the best.
Well, that makes a little
sense, but why did they stop?
>>HEIN: Allegedly,
they stopped because it
needed funding that you
have to go to Congress.
There was the giggle factor.
It was a time when they
were doing a lot of budget
cutting in the mid '90s.
But we don't know if
it really stopped.
It could have been
passed to other programs,
just like we've heard the
AATIP program that studied UFOs
in the Pentagon, it could be
shifted to another program,
changed the name, no
one hears about it.
>>NOORY: You're also an
expert in crop circles, crop
formations.
What on Earth are these things?
How do we explain these?
I mean, yes, if you have one
done by a group of people
and it takes them 20 hours to
make, I can understand that.
But if there's just one
that you can't explain,
that's the story of the century.
What are they?
>>HEIN: Well, George,
I got into crop circles
from remote viewing.
And by the way, I call it
actually, resonant viewing.
I don't think it's
really remote.
It's sort of like
tuning into a frequency.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HEIN: Well.
>>NOORY: It's always out there.
>>HEIN: Yeah, it's
out there, and you're
deciding instead of
tuning into this room,
you're just tuning
into another signal.
So it's a type of resonance.
But the crop circles
kind of fit into that.
I did a few targets
on crop circles
when I was doing my initial
training back in the '90s,
and I didn't even
know what they were.
I got out of graduate school,
crop circle, never heard
of that word.
So I decided to go
over there with a guy
from around here who was giving
tours there, Ron Russell.
>>NOORY: Over there
being Britain?
>>HEIN: Yeah, go over to the UK.
And I thought, I'm
going to finally get
some feedback on my target.
I was really shocked to see
these huge massive designs.
>>NOORY: Were you in the
middle of these fields?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
The first one I ever went into
was by Silbury Hill in 1997.
And it was a fractal so-called
Coke snowflake, six-sided.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HEIN: That is what I had
studied in my dissertation
to look at fractal geometry .
And I thought, wow, that
can't be a coincidence.
I studied fractal geometry.
Here, I'm walking
around in one, but it's
the size of a football field.
When I studied them
in books, George,
they would save ink by
leaving the center blank.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HEIN: And here it
was, 300 feet across.
Really incredible.
And another thing
is, people were
experiencing really strange.
>>NOORY: Feelings.
Energetic feelings.
>>HEIN: Feelings.
And then you begin
to run into people
that have had their batteries
and cameras and other.
>>NOORY: Drained, right?
>>HEIN: Drained, destroyed,
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HEIN: Burnt out in
seconds of going into these.
And you begin to wonder what
in the world is going on here.
How these huge objects,
they have some sort
of energetic signature.
>>NOORY: Didn't they also
investigate the crops?
Let's say it was a wheat field.
And they looked at the
chaff and the wheat
and there was something
genetically altered about it
or something like that?
>>HEIN: Well, I have to say,
a lot of the early science
in crop circles,
it's not entirely
clear what's causing some of
those effects that people saw.
>>NOORY: But they were effects.
>>HEIN: Yeah, there definitely
there are some effects.
You had changes in the plant.
Now, based on our research,
it's not clear to me
whether that is a
result of the energy
once the crop circle is there.
Because we did run into
people after a few years,
and I didn't think people,
initially people could do it.
I did run into people that
could actually make these,
not in 20 years' time, but
in maybe four or five hours
with a group of
five, six people.
>>NOORY: That could make it
the same as what you saw?
>>HEIN: Yeah, they could.
They really could.
And these were not hoaxers.
They were actually really
interested in the phenomena,
but they wanted to
interact with it.
>>NOORY: But somebody would
have seen them in the field.
>>HEIN: No, they
got good, George,
they got good doing
it in a very hidden.
>>NOORY: They do it at night?
>>HEIN: Yes, they
do it at night.
>>NOORY: Flashlights?
>>HEIN: No flashlights.
>>NOORY: You're kidding me!
>>HEIN: I went out with them
a couple times just to prove,
I didn't think they could do it.
And they said, do you
want to see us make one?
And these were believers
that the crop circles
themselves have weird effects.
>>NOORY: What do
these people believe?
>>HEIN: They believe that
there was some other original
phenomena, like
we're talking about,
that made ones that cannot
be easily explained.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>HEIN: They started
out by making,
to see, very small ones.
And they got bigger and bigger.
I said actually we
can make something
that looks half decent.
And we're getting these
weird effects ourselves
that people have
reported around,
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>HEIN: These strange
electromagnetic effects.
Let's see if we can
change the pattern.
They became like
artists, science artists.
Changing the pattern,
seeing the effects,
seeing how people react.
So people did come
onto the scene
and end up making these
really large ones.
But, George, the main point is,
these large ones that they made
are also real.
I mean, at least electronically.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>HEIN: And energetically.
So I don't really see it
anymore as real versus man-made.
To me, they're all real, because
energetically, they have--.
>>NOORY: Well,
you mentioned some
of the technical
failures of people who
are in these crop formations.
You take people on tours.
>>HEIN: Yes.
>>NOORY: All around the planet.
>>HEIN: One of the
main things that people
have seen over the years
in and around crop circles
that we have seen with our group
almost every year that we've
been there since the mid 1990s,
are weird and unexplained
camera and battery failures.
We saw it last year,
we saw the year before,
and we've just seen
it almost every time.
And I'd like you to
experience this for yourself,
because it really shows you
the power and the mystery
and the magic of
the crop circles.
Don't believe what
other people tell you
about the crop circles,
go see it for yourself.
And if you happen to be
one of the people who
has this experience
with the cameras
and the batteries like so many
other people have experienced,
including professional
film crews and so forth,
it'll be a story, an
experience that you
can talk about and tell people
about for a long, long time.
And it will be your personal
experience that shows you
that this is a real phenomena.
You don't need to listen
to anyone else's opinions
about it after that.
>>NOORY: If these
are being done,
Simeon, by outside sources,
and outside sources to me
would be extraterrestrial,
or I have
another theory I'll
mention in a second, what
do you think the message is?
>>HEIN: It's, um--
>>NOORY: And the
strange designs.
I mean, there's got
to be a purpose here.
>>HEIN: It seems to
me, my idea about it,
after having been involved
with this for over 20 years,
is that when you're dealing with
intelligence and energy that
comes through from other
dimensions of parallel reality,
one way that that energy
could come through
would be through
shapes and designs.
And this has been part of
physics for a long time.
You're familiar with the
area called cymatics.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>HEIN: You know how
sound creates shapes.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HEIN: And so forth.
>>NOORY: And that's
probably how they're using
these to make what they make.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
So these patterns have a
deeper sort of significance
that goes beyond the
appearance of it.
And that's why we see
these electronic effects.
It's almost like juncturing two
parallel realities together.
It's like a bridge.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>HEIN: And that bridge occurs
through frequencies and shape.
Because shapes and frequencies
are the language of nature.
>>NOORY: I have another theory.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And, of course, we
have heard of the Gaia theory.
Interesting here, we're
working with Gaia.
That the planet is alive.
It's an organism to itself.
What if the planet
has intelligence
and it's trying to communicate
with us via any way it can,
and that would be
crop formations?
So it's sending
us these messages
from within the planet.
>>HEIN: Oh, yea.
>>NOORY: Is that possible?
>>HEIN: I wouldn't
rule that out either.
I mean, intelligence
can manifest itself
in so many unexpected ways.
>>NOORY: Maybe it's saying,
stop killing me or something
like that.
>>HEIN: Yeah, nature
has its own language.
And why wouldn't it
eventually use very precise
geometric shapes too?
I mean, it's the
path of least effort.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HEIN: It doesn't
always just turn
into entropy and randomness like
we've been taught from science.
It actually comes highly
ordered structured systems,
and that's one of the messages.
By the way, George,
I have to mention,
I have talked to witnesses
that have seen UFOs,
flying disks leave.
>>NOORY: Or orbs or
things like that.
>>HEIN: Leave these patterns.
The orbs are
associated with it too.
That's a very
interesting subject.
And it's balls of light.
But I've talked to witnesses.
It was in "Black Swan Ghost."
This woman that was
picking huckleberries
with her brother and this disk
comes over the forest area
up in Usk, Washington
in the '70s.
And she said when that disk
left, it flattened the plants.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>HEIN: And I said, did
it just bend them over?
It kind of went
very low and swoosh.
She said no.
Flat as a pancake.
What does that sound like?
>>NOORY: Which is
like the formations?
>>HEIN: Yeah, it
wasn't a crop circle,
but it left flat as a pancake
wildflowers as it left,
and then of course,
a couple hours,
the military comes up from
Spokane, wants to interview,
what did they see,
did you see anyone.
How about that?
Takes measurements.
>>NOORY: I remember initial UFO
sightings were landing spots .
And you would see
the indentation
of what could be the
tripod or the burn
from whatever the source was.
And then eventually, we got
into the crop formations.
It's almost as if they wanted to
direct us over a period of time
to tell us they were here.
>>HEIN: That's an
interesting idea, George,
because how often is it
that people around UFO,
UFO landing sites also
experience that strange sort
of effects on cars, radios.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HEIN: Same thing
around the crop circles.
So there's definitely a
type of connection there.
And it kind of has that feeling,
right, of a UFO landing site.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HEIN: So I would
say that there's
some kind of, there's
a connection there,
there's a connection.
>>NOORY: In the show,
"Crop Circles, Embrace the
Mystery" on Gaia,
of course, we talk
about the balls of
light people have
been reported seeing all
over, as you just mentioned.
>>COLIN ANDREWS: Many people
have seen, I've seen many times
over the years myself,
sometimes on camera,
we see balls of
light in the sky.
Totally inexplicable movements.
Nothing that we can rationalize.
I've been with
government scientists,
I've been with many
scientists, and we
have film from all kinds
of people over the years
that clearly demonstrates
one, these things exist.
They're clearly, there they are.
So that's what they
can expect to see.
They can expect to see
very unusual things
taking place they will
not be able to explain.
So the mystique
that brought them
is probably how they will leave.
>>NOORY: Has anything unusual
ever happened to you, Simeon,
investigating this
crop formations?
Sightings yourself?
Anything strange?
>>HEIN: My main experience
there started out
kind of non ordinary
experiences started out
with initially just seeing
the cameras lose their ability
to focus.
>>NOORY: You saw that.
>>HEIN: I have
with my own camera.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>HEIN: At a distance.
We're not talking, we're talking
maybe a distance of a quarter
mile, you're up looking over
one of these crop circles
and your camera stops focusing.
I'd never seen.
>>NOORY: You're a quarter
mile away from the formation.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
It's happened to people flying
over these and microlights
camera stops working.
So that's when I started to
see some crop circle weirdness.
And then it just
progressed from there.
Even Colin was with us
once, Colin Andrews,
as you just showed him talking.
>>NOORY: Great investigator.
>>HEIN: Yeah, he was one of
the original investigators.
We were with him once.
He was one of our guests and
his camera stopped working.
So for me, it started with
the cameras, batteries.
I was with someone,
they put their camera,
Sony camcorder down in
the middle of the circle.
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>HEIN: Melted the soldered
joints on the inside.
>>NOORY: That's nearly
impossible, right?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
They said--
>>NOORY: Under any condition.
>>HEIN: It's very
hard to explain.
It's almost like all of
the energy in the camcorder
discharged at the same
time and melted the,
and Sony sent it back
and said the whole power
supply had melted.
They had to replace it.
And it wasn't being used,
it was just sitting there.
So we stopped putting
our cameras down
on top of crops circles.
I have seen the balls of
light too occasionally.
Those, as you mentioned here,
are very interesting phenomena.
That has actually been
studied for a long time.
>>NOORY: Because
the balls of light
come in, and then later
when you go to investigate,
there's a crop formation there.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
Or another scenario
is, that they're
attracted to these
areas or something's
going out in the physics
of the area that's
creating both phenomena
at the same time.
In other words, once
the shape is there,
the energetics allow
these balls of light.
This is ball lightning.
What people don't realize
about ball lightning,
you're talking about
a quantum object.
This is something that
junctures directly
with the quantum field.
It pulls energy.
It's a very fascinating thing.
People have studied
this in the past,
they call it exotic
vacuum objects, EVOs.
>>NOORY: Does it appear to
be under intelligent control?
>>HEIN: Yeah, that's
the thing about it.
These balls of light,
I'm told by people who've
been out there, could
start moving towards you,
almost have a sense that they
can feel that you're there.
They seem sort of intelligent.
It's really interesting.
What's behind it and how
does it sort of pick up
this intentionality?
>>NOORY: How big are the balls?
>>HEIN: The one I saw was
the size of a grapefruit,
but they can be--
>>NOORY: So they're very small.
>>HEIN: No, they can be bigger.
They can be a few feet across.
And these are the--
>>NOORY: That's
still small to me.
>>HEIN: Yeah, they're
bright though.
They may be small, but they
generate a lot of energy.
>>NOORY: They're round?
>>HEIN: Yeah, generally.
People have been seeing
these for a long time.
And I'm convinced that
these balls of light people
see around crop circles
are the same thing
that people have been seeing
that we called ball lightning.
>>NOORY: How do they disappear?
When they're gone,
what did they do?
Just vanish?
Or do they take off?
What happens?
>>HEIN: Either.
It could be either situation.
They can just kind of blink out.
The one I saw was there
and then it just vanished.
They can move at
really rapid speeds
and they can be a
really small object,
they can be a larger
object, but it still
seems to be the same phenomena.
It's some sort of electrized
charge cluster, it's a charge,
it's kind of, it's a
concentrated area of energy.
>>NOORY: How does this
affect you personally knowing
what you know about some of
these very unusual things?
>>HEIN: Well, you
know, you learn
that there is a lot of
really important information
that we're really not
talking about in science.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HEIN: That have
evidence for them,
and that the skepticism
that we all naturally have,
it's gone too far in the
direction of not even looking
at these phenomena,
taking them seriously.
But we've had 100
years of getting
to the edge of these
sort of subject matter.
But we always pull back.
And what you realize, is when
you get a hunch and intuition,
you see something
that doesn't fit
in the description of reality
that we've been taught
is ordinary by our society,
you should pursue it.
You should be looking
at that and wondering,
is there some sort
of opportunity
there, something
important, right?
Instead of worrying
about what other people
think about you, worrying about
the giggle factor and so forth.
Whatever your experience
is, you should
be looking at this,
because it might
be the tip of a very
important iceberg that
could have very important
consequences for everyone.
>>NOORY: During
World War II, we had
people who decoded messages.
That was their job,
that's what they did.
Is anybody trying to decode
these crop formations
and try to figure out
what the heck they mean?
>>HEIN: Yeah, there
have been people.
People have discovered all sorts
of interesting information.
There are the mathematics of it.
You know, because they're very
symmetrical and precise shapes,
a lot like crystalline
shapes often.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HEIN: You can look at the
fractal dimension of them.
You can look at the sort
of winding spiral patterns
within them and kind of,
people have looked at them
in a variety of ways
and there's always
a lot of math at the basis
of it at the end of the day.
But the important
thing is, people
seem to discover new
mathematical ideas that
are very surprising.
But it just shows us, at
the basis of our reality,
there's often a lot of
mathematical precision to it.
And you see that in
the crop circles.
You see it in a
lot of phenomena.
>>NOORY: What does
your gut tell you?
What do you think's happening?
>>HEIN: My gut tells me
that the conversations
that we should have been having
in physics for the last 100
years, we're going to have
those conversations now.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HEIN: Because.
>>NOORY: By necessity.
>>HEIN: Science, formal
science, and I've
been reading "Science" magazine.
Every issue for 30 years
since my graduate advisor
told me to get a
subscription to "Science."
I don't see a lot of discussion
about these phenomena
in "Science" magazine.
It always concerns me.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>HEIN: Occasionally,
once a decade, you'll
have a letter about UFOs.
>>NOORY: You would think it
would be a front cover story.
>>HEIN: You would think.
We have so many
different topics,
including things
like cold fusion,
exotic energy sources, which
we should be looking at.
But there's such a
huge institutional bias
against studying things that
are out of the ordinary,
right, that discourages new
researchers from going off
into areas that are
not considered safe.
It could be a threat
to your career.
So people are always playing
it safe and we're not looking.
And we haven't
had the discussion
in physics about
what even quantum
mechanics, what is going
on with quantum mechanics.
How can things be described
both as particles and waves?
And we've been told
that it only describes
really small particles, right?
Why?
Why doesn't it describe
larger objects like us?
Why do we say that this kind
of magical and strange thing
that we call quantum
mechanics only
applies to subatomic matter?
We're made of subatomic
matter, George.
My gut feeling is, we should
be looking at these topics
and we should be studying them.
Just like the government
funded remote viewing,
it should be funding
research into these areas,
because it's important.
>>NOORY: We're 13 and 1/2
billion years old here,
aren't we?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
We're made up of, as people
said, we're made of star stuff.
We're made of the
same quantum elements
that make the universe.
What's the connection?
And why do we see some of
this really exotic phenomena,
you know, teleportation kind of
this interaction at a distance,
why don't we see that at a
larger macroscopic scale too?
And we haven't actually
talked about that very much.
People who have investigated
this within physics
have always been really
reprimanded for it.
They've had their careers
really hurt by it.
>>NOORY: They have.
>>HEIN: Yeah, they have.
And I feel, George,
that these phenomena
that we're talking
about here, these
are actually examples of how
quantum phenomena manifest
themselves at our scale.
>>NOORY: Privately, what are
scientists saying about crop
formations, privately?
>>HEIN: So scientists,
I talk to them,
and they tell me things
privately , like you're saying,
which they don't want
me to ever repeat.
For either it's classified.
They're afraid of what
people are going to.
>>NOORY: Career.
>>HEIN: Career.
And some of these
people don't have
to worry about their
careers anymore, George.
They've been around
for a long time.
They're tops in their
field and they tell,
they know about these
exotic phenomena.
They know about this stuff.
And some of them have even
handled pieces of crashed UFOs.
And, George--
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>HEIN: They've handled it.
When I tell them some of these
crop circles could be man-made,
they come back at me about the
reality of the UFO phenomena,
because they told me they've
handled the stuff themselves.
And everyone would know
who these people are.
>>NOORY: But publicly.
>>HEIN: No, exactly.
>>NOORY: They don't say it.
>>HEIN: Nope.
They don't want
me to mention it.
No YouTube videos.
So how many people
are out there,
George, that know exactly what
you and I are talking about
and the audience
knows about this too,
and they haven't
come forward to lend
their support behind it
because they're concerned
about the consequences?
When those people
start to come forward,
we're going to see
some real changes.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>HEIN: I'm telling you.
>>NOORY: What about the
possibility, Simeon,
that whatever
happened is happening
through a parallel universe?
That we're having
an overlap somehow.
Is that conceivable?
>>HEIN: Yeah, George, I
think that's the most likely
explanation at this
point, of what.
>>NOORY: You do?
>>HEIN: All of
these phenomena are.
Absolutely.
This has been proposed since
Paul Dirac proposed the idea
of antimatter back in 1927.
>>NOORY: Because
we have a guest,
by the way, David Paulides,
who talks about missing people.
And he can't explain
what's going on.
These kids aren't being taken.
These people aren't just
disappearing by some animal
coming down and grabbing them.
I think they're stumbling into
some portal of another universe
and they can't find
their way back.
>>HEIN: Yeah, that
definitely could be the case.
>>NOORY: I think
that's what's happening
with these formations.
>>HEIN: People, yes.
People have proposed
since the '20s
the idea of a mirror
universe, mirror particles,
ghost universes.
And every time they do
it, the physics community
has this big backlash and
tells them to get lost.
You've heard the phrase,
shut up and calculate.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>HEIN: You can't talk about
what's really going on here.
So I think the most likely
explanation for these phenomena
is certain things that you
do, lead you get bleed-through
from other parallel realities.
The parallel reality idea is
being taken very seriously
by some scientists.
There are experiments going
on at Oak Ridge National Labs
in Tennessee.
>>NOORY: As we speak.
>>HEIN: Looking at mirror
neutrons, a mirror universe.
You may have heard about this
experiment in Antarctica,
the ANITA experiment,
where they detected
what seemed to be a neutrino
going backwards in time.
The main point is,
we don't know what
the final results of
these studies will be,
but at least scientists,
serious scientists
are looking at the possibility
of parallel realities.
So when you and I
experience things
every day or occasionally
that we can't quite explain,
you have to wonder whether
it's sort of popping in
from another reality.
We can't physically
see dark matter.
We can't actually see
it, we can't feel it,
but it has a gravitational
influence, and a lot of people
speculate that that's
another parallel reality.
>>NOORY: Physicist
Dr. Theresa Bullard
on our program, "Mystery
Teachings," talked exactly
about that.
>>THERESA BULLARD: We've learned
that string theory provides
some exciting and beautiful
possibilities for discovering
a unified theory of everything.
And string theory is
what has opened the door
to the multiverse
idea in science.
How did it do that?
Well, it goes back to the
issue that string theorists are
grappling with, the challenge of
identifying the exact geometry
of the super strings
and extra dimensions
hidden within our universe.
They have many candidate
shapes allowed by the math.
Over 10 to the power
500 possibilities,
which is a massive number.
Each geometry
theoretically corresponding
to its own universe
with a different set
of physical laws and tuning.
But rather than saying there
can be only one right answer,
resulting in only one
universe, namely ours,
string theorists
have instead proposed
that all of these possibilities
are equally probable
and likely exist somewhere
within a multiverse.
Meaning there are at least 10 to
the power 500 differently tuned
universes out there in
the multiverse, maybe even
infinite numbers.
But this part where they say
they're all equally probable
and all exist, this is the
part where some scientists then
claim that this
means that there is
nothing special about the
fine tuning of our universe.
We simply find these sets of
parameters in our universe
because we can only
exist in a universe that
is fine tuned for life.
But there are many other types
of universes in the multiverse.
We are just one possibility
in an infinite sea, nothing
special.
Therefore, mystery solved.
Or not.
Really, all of this
is speculation based
on assumptions, not evidence.
>>NOORY: You agree
with that, Simeon?
>>HEIN: Yeah, overall.
>>NOORY: What she says?
>>HEIN: The science suggests,
at least just coming from it
mathematically, like
string theory does,
that there are lots
of parallel realities.
And whether you get from string
theory or from cosmology,
they all point in this
direction of there
being parallel realities.
>>NOORY: There's so much
we haven't discovered yet,
isn't there?
>>HEIN: Yeah.
And if you look at, there is
so much we haven't uncovered.
If you look at the history
of where we've been
and where we are
now, we've always
found the idea of a larger
universe a little bit
frightening, hard to believe.
People dealt with
this 500 years ago.
You think of Copernicus,
Galileo just even suggesting
that the Earth wasn't
the center, right,
as your guest is
pointing out here
that maybe we're not special.
That was like heresy back then.
People were burned at the stake.
And now every day they
discover new exoplanets, right?
So would it really
be surprising we're
finding our universe
is infinitely large,
there's also other universes?
>>NOORY: Will technology help
us find these other universes?
>>HEIN: I think it will.
These particle
experiments that are
being done right now that we
talked about a second ago,
you could find evidence
from particle physics.
Something, that
something doesn't quite
fit from our conventional
model of physics,
and that the only
way to explain it
would be that there's
some other reality
that we can't see that's sort
of interacting with our own.
In fact, physicists
right now are
proposing something called, the
Many Interacting Worlds model.
Howard Wiseman from Australia,
serious mainstream physicists
have said, you know, you
can take quantum mechanics,
flip it around and look
at quantum mechanics
as an effect of
multiverses interacting.
How about that?
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>HEIN: That's it's a huge
number, near infinite number of
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
>>HEIN: Multi, they
interact slightly
with us, which creates what
we call quantum mechanics.
So physicists are
really starting
to look at this flip it around.
And so you could end
up at multiverses
from many different ways.
And it wouldn't seem so strange.
I mean, again, 500 years ago
we would have really thought
that it was weird that we
weren't the center, you know.
That it's a couple
of planets and us.
And now how big is it?
>>NOORY: What is antimatter?
>>HEIN: Antimatter is
something that Paul Dirac,
the British physicist,
proposed back in 1927.
And he couldn't believe it.
>>NOORY: '27?
>>HEIN: '27.
>>NOORY: He was right.
>>HEIN: He was going through the
equations of quantum mechanics,
and he found that there was a
parallel set of explanations
that suggested particles
that we hadn't detected yet,
that fit Einstein's equations.
And he called it, I don't know
if he called it antimatter back
then, but he suggested that
there were other particles.
And it took three years
to work the math out.
And then someone named
Carl Anderson actually
detected one of these particles
like we're talking about,
science comes along, in 1932.
They were looking at
particle, particle tracks.
>>NOORY: 88 years ago.
>>HEIN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: 88 years ago!
>>HEIN: 88 years.
And they realized that the math
had suggested ant-particles.
>>NOORY: Something was there.
>>HEIN: They were.
They detected them.
And now antimatter, something
that would have seemed
like something out
of "Star Trek."
George, you realize
that thunderstorms
produce antimatter?
From what I read,
500 times a day.
>>NOORY: I didn't know that.
>>HEIN: 500 times a day
on the planet antimatter's
produced by thunderstorms.
>>NOORY: Where does it go?
>>HEIN: That's the
thing about antimatter.
When it encounters matter,
becomes a lot of energy.
>>NOORY: Huh.
>>HEIN: Other people
have proposed this.
Nobel Prize winners,
Yang and Lee,
that were looking at something
called symmetries and parity
violation physics,
particles, they
called this a hidden
sector, because we
couldn't find any right-handed
neutrinos in our world.
>>NOORY: What do you think will
be the most amazing discovery
in the next five to 10 years?
>>HEIN: I think
it's likely to be
that there is intelligent life
within the space we're already
in now.
Not even extraterrestrial.
That the space that we're in now
that we think of as being very
physical, easy to describe,
is going to be seen as more
complex, and that there's other
things going on in these spaces
that we've taken for granted .
The other intelligence,
other life,
other activity that in the past,
we wouldn't have even imagined,
that it's right here.
It's been here the
whole time, we just
weren't paying attention.
>>NOORY: Simeon, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>HEIN: Thanks a lot, George.
>>NOORY: Maybe one day we'll get
the answers to crop formations,
parallel universes.
But right now, we
merely can just explore.
I'm Georgia Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."